README.md, before:

# u-bmc

[![Build
Status](https://circleci.com/gh/u-root/u-bmc.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/u-root/u-bmc)
[![Go Report
Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/u-root/u-bmc)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/u-root/u-bmc)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg)](https://github.com/u-root/u-bmc/blob/master/LICENSE)

# Description

u-bmc uses u-root to create a Linux OS distribution that is fully open-source.

u-bmc borrows and contributes to [OpenBMC](https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc) which has
similar high-level goals, but chooses to pursue industry-standard compliance. Where
OpenBMC uses IPMI, u-bmc uses gRPC.

# Demo

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/202889.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/202889)

# Why?

BMC software has historically been known to be insecure. There is no inherent reason for that.
u-bmc sets out to improve this by offering an alternative built on modern technologies.

# Support

u-bmc is still in experimental stage and is currently only supporting
BMCs based on ASPEED AST2400. Other BMC SOCs are planned, and if you want
to contribute let us know.

Currently the supported boards are:
- Open Compute Project: Quanta F06 Leopard DDR3

Planned boards are:
- Open Compute Project: Quanta F20 Yosemite

Do you want to become a contributor of a board? Let us know!

# Roadmap

To give you some sense of what we want to create:

 * All function exported over gRPC like:
   * Serial-over-LAN
   * Sensor data
   * iKVM
   * Updating BIOS
   * POST information
 * Implementation of OpenMetrics for Prometheus integration for sensors
 * Offer SSH server for on-platform debugging
   * Support SSH CA-signed certificates to avoid having to upload a bunch of certs
 * USB device emulation
   * Must have: USB storage from image
   * Cool to have: USB ethernet to host, replaces KCS IPMI interface.
   * Cool to have: USB graphics card + mouse + keyboard for KVM

# Usage

Prerequisites:
```
sudo apt-get install gcc-arm-none-eabi mtd-utils u-boot-tools golang-1.10 fakeroot flex bison device-tree-compiler qemu-system-arm

# Until u-root vendoring is working properly, also grab:
go get -u github.com/u-root/u-bmc/cmd/uinit
```

Clone:
```
go get github.com/u-root/u-bmc
cd ~/go/src/github.com/u-root/u-bmc
git submodule init && git submodule update
```

Setup:
```
# SSH ECDSA public keys does not work for now
cp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub ssh_keys.pub
make
```

If you have qemu-system-arm installed:
```
make sim
```

To run the integration tests (requires QEMU):
```
export UROOT_QEMU=qemu-system-arm
cd integration
go test
```

If you're using a supported platform and want to try it on your hardware you
can use socflash\_x64 provided by ASPEED like this:
```
echo This is extremely likely to break things as u-bmc is still experimental
sudo ./socflash_x64 of=bmc-backup.img if=flash.img lpcport=0x2e option=gl
```

# Updating Dependencies

**NOTE: Due to a [bug](https://github.com/u-root/u-root/issues/936) in
u-root vendoring is temporarily disabled**

```
Latest released version of dep is required:
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/golang/dep/master/install.sh | sh
dep ensure
```

# Contributions

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

Since this is an early experiment if this is at all interesting for you or your
company, do reach out in our Slack channel:

- [Slack](https://u-root.slack.com), sign up [here](http://slack.u-root.com/)

Commit message:

Add reference to using openbmc's qemu
The stock qemu does work somewhat well, but not good enough for tests

Signed-off-by: Christian Svensson <bluecmd@google.com>

README.md, after:

# u-bmc

[![Build
Status](https://circleci.com/gh/u-root/u-bmc.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/u-root/u-bmc)
[![Go Report
Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/u-root/u-bmc)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/u-root/u-bmc)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg)](https://github.com/u-root/u-bmc/blob/master/LICENSE)

# Description

u-bmc uses u-root to create a Linux OS distribution that is fully open-source.

u-bmc borrows and contributes to [OpenBMC](https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc) which has
similar high-level goals, but chooses to pursue industry-standard compliance. Where
OpenBMC uses IPMI, u-bmc uses gRPC.

# Demo

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/202889.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/202889)

# Why?

BMC software has historically been known to be insecure. There is no inherent reason for that.
u-bmc sets out to improve this by offering an alternative built on modern technologies.

# Support

u-bmc is still in experimental stage and is currently only supporting
BMCs based on ASPEED AST2400. Other BMC SOCs are planned, and if you want
to contribute let us know.

Currently the supported boards are:
- Open Compute Project: Quanta F06 Leopard DDR3

Planned boards are:
- Open Compute Project: Quanta F20 Yosemite

Do you want to become a contributor of a board? Let us know!

# Roadmap

To give you some sense of what we want to create:

 * All function exported over gRPC like:
   * Serial-over-LAN
   * Sensor data
   * iKVM
   * Updating BIOS
   * POST information
 * Implementation of OpenMetrics for Prometheus integration for sensors
 * Offer SSH server for on-platform debugging
   * Support SSH CA-signed certificates to avoid having to upload a bunch of certs
 * USB device emulation
   * Must have: USB storage from image
   * Cool to have: USB ethernet to host, replaces KCS IPMI interface.
   * Cool to have: USB graphics card + mouse + keyboard for KVM

# Usage

Prerequisites:
```
sudo apt-get install gcc-arm-none-eabi mtd-utils u-boot-tools golang-1.10 fakeroot flex bison device-tree-compiler

# Until u-root vendoring is working properly, also grab:
go get -u github.com/u-root/u-bmc/cmd/uinit
```

Clone:
```
go get github.com/u-root/u-bmc
cd ~/go/src/github.com/u-root/u-bmc
git submodule init && git submodule update
```

Setup:
```
# SSH ECDSA public keys does not work for now
cp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub ssh_keys.pub
make
```
# Hacking

To run the simulator and the integration test you need a special
Qemu from https://github.com/openbmc/qemu. Using the upstream Qemu will
work somewhat, but the integration tests will fail.

```
make sim
```

To run the integration tests:
```
export UROOT_QEMU=qemu-system-arm
cd integration
go test
```

If you're using a supported platform and want to try it on your hardware you
can use socflash\_x64 provided by ASPEED like this:
```
echo This is extremely likely to break things as u-bmc is still experimental
sudo ./socflash_x64 of=bmc-backup.img if=flash.img lpcport=0x2e option=gl
```

# Updating Dependencies

**NOTE: Due to a [bug](https://github.com/u-root/u-root/issues/936) in
u-root vendoring is temporarily disabled**

```
Latest released version of dep is required:
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/golang/dep/master/install.sh | sh
dep ensure
```

# Contributions

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

Since this is an early experiment if this is at all interesting for you or your
company, do reach out in our Slack channel:

- [Slack](https://u-root.slack.com), sign up [here](http://slack.u-root.com/)
